# Marsquake - Python code for downloading and visualizing Mars seismic events in time and frequency domain.
<br>
<i>Code by: Alvarado, Liannaly (M.S Student, University of Houston and project architect), <STRONG> Munoz, Andrew </STRONG> (Blue Bison Analytics and lead developer), Suarez, Stephanie (Ph.D Candite University of Houston), Tirado, Sara (Ryder Scott), West, Dorene (DBW CPG Inc.) at the Hack-A-Thon - Spring Symposium of the Geophysical Society of Houston. April 20th, 2023.</i>
<br><br>
In 2021, NASA's InSight (Interior Exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport) Spacecraft landed on Mars. One of the two science objectives of InSight is to detect seismic activity on the Red Planet using a seismometer called SEIS (Seismic Experiment for Interior Structure). The first marsquake ever detected was in April 2019 revealing that Mars is seismically active. Beginning September 2019, Mars’s seismic data has been released to the public, every three months, by Marsquake Service (MQS).  Data is available through the Mars Seismic Catalogues.  As of today, the Incorporated Research Institutions for Seismology (IRIS) is the only institution that offers online software for visualizing Mars seismic data files in the time domain. However, these visual displays are at least two years out of date.  To view the more recent data we wrote this open-source Python code, which sorts through the online catalog of data files to select marsquakes with valid epicenter locations. The code creates visual plots of the horizontal component of Mars event seismograms using SEIS raw data. This code also goes a step further to convert the seismic data to the frequency domain, applying a Fast Fourier Transform.
